everyone this is nikki AKA nick fasho
three and i'm here today to show you the
whoopie sling system and how to make it
yourself so just really quickly the
whoopie sling is two loops with this
some move us tible area and what happens
is this is going to be on your tree this
will be either permanently attached or
temporarily up to you to your hammock
and as long as there's tension this 12
strand rope is going to just lock back
on itself and when there's no tension
you can just pull it through and as soon
as there's tension again it's going to
lock up so i'm using samsung blue one
eighth inch am steel rope the same as
you can get on whoopee slings calm and
you can just buy from him if you don't
want to do this but I enjoy making my
own stuff so as far as tools go i'm
using a bulb a retractable ballpoint pen
ink cartridge and some wire from a wire
hanger just a tip if you're going to use
this sand down the edges so it doesn't
catch on the inner strands so here we go
i'm using a pretty long piece i'm using
a 13 inch segments for each of them and
you want to take take the ends pull four
strands out or you don't even have to if
you don't want to but I pulled four
strands out and cut it out an angle and
taped it so there you go now we have two
and five-eighths inch is the fid length
is a full filling for the one eighth
inch rope so I measured this out to be
two and a half inches so we can have
from the end 12 foot lengths and then
another foot length right here okay so
we go ahead and feed the bullet in here
that's going to go right to mark be now
i'm using instructions from samson blue
I have that in the description and also
have another how-to video in the
description that i use the first time i
do this so this is my second time I've
done this all right I've had no other
splicing instruction before this so
that's through you pull mark a about
however this is going to be your final
loop almost it will be a little bit
bigger so just mark it and then you take
the other end that goes into the shorter
hand right here it doesn't matter where
you put it in all kind of does you want
it kind of close depending on how big
you want your loop okay oh my just split
of strands so want to redo that yeah
okay so pull that all the way through as
you can see that's a lot of left nod
rope left so you don't want and the
twists in there just want to pull that
through make sure it's nice and tidy and
that is your lock Brahman splice right
there and then you just want to bury
this I probably could have made this
little shorter if I wanted to I could
just cut off but I don't care that much
so we go ahead and the measurement is
one and a half lengths of the free end
so I could go down to here I'm not if
you want to market go ahead I don't I
didn't and I'm not going to now so you
want this as close to your spot as you
can unfortunately because I don't have
that much free end I have just enough
actually well what you can do is you can
just take it out and thought about this
and you're placing it close to the
splice and then feeding it just putting
it through now if you don't have a
retractable ink cartridge you can use
guitar string or very thin wire and do
this instead of pushing it through
pulling it through there's a video on
youtube called will be saline conversion
where he does that himself and works
just as well so this is all you really
need is the rope which I got at 43 sends
a foot so that's a pretty good deal for
something that can hold two thousand
pounds
one that when it's in its will be sling
format it goes down to about minimum
1,200 pounds so I'm having some trouble
starting this there we go so now we just
fit put the bullet into the FID and keep
squeezing it through I'm just doing as
much as I can and it looks like what's
coming up now so if I just pushed it
through now I've danger of losing the
bullet in there so we're going to take
the push which end so soon so we're
going to take the push wire and just go
through
alright so perfect now to finish it we
just look it back and take the tape off
okay just milk it back no problem there
you go you have your finished lock
Brummel spice splice and you can just
take the mark tape off or you can't if
you did it with a pen and we will
continue in the next segment